# Python for Scientific Programming

In this course we will try to introduce to programming in Python to
enable you to be a faster and better scientist in the future. This is
hardly the first course of its kind, so we will make extensive use of
existing resources on the Web. Be prepared to use your head and your
browser! The course is aimed at graduate students in Biophysics, and
is mainly based on the Python course taught in our institute over the
last 4 years.

## Why Python?

Python is a versatile tool for any scientific task. It's applications
in science range from data analysis and statistics over modelling to
the creation of modern user interfaces for scientific tools. Its
openess also make it the optimal tool for creating reproducible
science.

## What does it include?

The course starts with a basic introduction into the language and its
uses as a general programming language. We will present the basic
principles and best practices of Python programming. Here is a list of
things that we hope to teach you about:

- Python basics
  - Datatypes
  - control flow
- How to use Python 
  - editors
  - debuggers
  - iPython
  - notebook
  - IDEs
- Object orientation and advanced topics
  - Classes
  - Exceptions
  - Packages and modules
- ...

As we advance, we will focus on the great variety of scientific
packages existing for the Python language. In the lectures we will
also show you the tools we think are great to use if you are using
Python in a scientific setting.

For those who are already familiar with it here comes a list of
packages that we will mention and use in the course:

- numpy
- matplotlib
- pandas
- ...


## Structure

The course is split into two parts. During the first week we will
introduce new concepts in alternating lectures and practical sessions
which will built up a basic knowledge about the topic. In week two you
will implement your own project with our support. We will propose a
few to choose from that are designed to utilize most of the tools you
learned in week one. However, you can also propose a project you would
like to do and we will give you support if possible. In the end of the
course you will present your project in a 15 minute presentation.


## How to use this course

As mentioned above, we also want to teach you how to use important
tools. The first of these is _git_. Git is a version control software
that is incredibly useful to keep track of the changes you do to files
in a project and to organize your work. However most people feel that
it has a steep learning curve, which we would like to ease up for you.
Before we start the course be sure to look into [this]() great
practical introduction to git.

In order to take part in the course you should *fork*
([more about forking](https://help.github.com/articles/fork-a-repo/))
this repository and then *clone* it onto your local machine. Before
you can do this you will need a github account. If you don't have one
yet you can register now for free. You can also just *clone* the
repository, but you won't be able to `push` your results back to
github. If you choose the forking option you will also be able to
improve the course material by submitting a
[pull request](https://help.github.com/articles/using-pull-requests/),
which would be awesome!
